---
layout: post
title: Dry vs Wet
published: true
---
Before even getting started with this blog post, I will be delving into the definitions of the
following terms, WET (Write Everything Twice), and DRY (Don't Repeat Yourself). These are two
principles of software development that I am learning to implement and compare to see which one
will be more efficient than the other.

I have heard of both principles and decided that after such a long time of so many repeatative processes that, 
WET, seems to come naturally for me. On the other hand though, I want to embrace DRY as a way to further cement that
I can come up with solutions to my repetative tasks in order to create a more efficient workflow. As I am somewhat, 
limited on the machine that I am currently using, I plan on utilizing it to it's fullest potential by creating scripts, tools, software and templates in order to create a workflow that will benefit both my learning and efficiancy. 

## Dry vs Wet

### Dry (Don't Repeat Yourself)
This is one of the hardest principles for me to implement as, I have grown accustomed to repeating myself when it comes to certain commands. Such as my Git workflow, and system maintainance commands. To counter this, I have begun writing a series of Bash scripts and started creating CLI Tools using Node.js in order to limit the amount of repetition that occurs within my workflow. As I become more accustomed to how things work, I am coming to an understanding that my workflow could use some revision with the help of this principle.

An example of this would be my script to create bulk file and folder creation in accordance to the SSG (Static Site Generator) that I am implementing in the workflow. It may be a round about way of creating a solution, as I become more familiar with the system I will become more fluent with the system itself rather than creating solutions outside of the SSG or given framework.

### Wet (Write Everything Twice)
This principle has become my daily method in which I create. To help me build my familiarity with a given language, framework and commands to help me learn. Though I feel that writing everything twice is efficient but it sure helps build the muscles in the memory to not only learn but create fluency in the given language and framework. Alongside with the familiarity with programming principles that I am implementing into my software, it helps to not only understand but comprehend what exactly is going on in the software. For example, Node.js, I did not understand that the functions that I was creating were considered API's and part of the REST API until I created a plethora of example software. 

As time goes by I will be more diligent to writing updates, as I am learning now how to implement Firebase and all of it's tools in order to create the web application I have envisioned for my companies website. 
